I do hereby confirm that I have read and understood the terms and conditions

and rules pertaining to persons who will observe South Africa’s Local

Government Election (LGE) 2016 under the auspices of the AFRIFORUM

I am accredited as a voluntary election observer to observe elections under the

auspices of AFRIFORUM and that I may be exposed to risks that may result in

personal injury, death or damages either direct or consequential and I

understand and appreciate the nature of such risks.  

1. In consideration of my participation as an election observer, I hereby accept all

risks that may result from such participation and I hereby release the

abovementioned institution, its Management and employees from all

liability to me, my personal representatives, estate, heirs, next of kin and

assigns for any and all claims and causes of action for loss of or damages

to my property and for any and all injury to my person, including my death,

that may result from or occur during my participation as observer, whether

caused by negligence of AFRIFORUM, its Management, employees or

representatives, or otherwise.  

2. I agree to indemnify AFRIFORUM, its Management, employees or

representatives from liability for the injury or death of any person(s) and

damage to property that may result from my negligent or intentional act or

omission while participating as an election observer.  

3. Furthermore, I will be an election observer under the following conditions:  

4. AFRIFORUM reserves the right to take any pertinent steps against me who

might be found to have contravened the provisions of this agreement.

Such steps may include (but are not limited to):

. 5.1  cancellation of observer status and removal of my name from the

observers list at the Electoral Commission of South Africa,  

. 5.2  suspension or dismissal of me as observer who fails to abide by this

agreement at any time during the process of election observation.

 

5. I am a willingly volunteer to serve as an observer during the 2016 LGE which

will be observed by AFRIFORUM.  

6. I agree to undergo relevant training and to attend all briefings on electoral

legislation, policies and procedures for upgrading my observer skills

conducted by AFRIFORUM and its partners.  

7. I, as a voluntarily AFRIFORUM election observer, should ensure that my

behaviour conforms to the Electoral Act 73 of 1998 including Regulations

of the Electoral Commission (IEC) of South Africa.  

8. I agree to respect lawful instructions from AFRIFORUM Coordinators and/or

Supervisors, including but not limited to deployment, reporting and

submission of reports on all elections observed under the auspices of

AFRIFORUM.  

9. I shall be impartial, professional and objective at all times in the conduct of my

duties and shall not be bias or showing preference to any political party,

candidate or any stakeholder in the election.  

10. I shall refrain from communicating with voters with a view to influencing

their vote for any political party or candidate in the election.  

11. I am serving as an observer under AFRIFORUM and shall be resident in

the area in which I will observe the elections as directed from time to time

by the project leader. AFRIFORUM  will not be for responsible for costs,

that I may be incurred as an observer recruited in my residential area or

outside of the wards/provinces in which I am an ordinary resident. I shall,

at all times, endeavour to communicate with and get instructions from

AFRIFORUM Coordinators and or Supervisors regarding the voting or

polling stations to which I will be deployed.  

12. I shall at all times recognize the authority of the IEC presiding officials in

all voting or polling stations that I will visit, whilst remaining accountable to

AFRIFORUM in all their duties.  

14. I shall provide a minimum of three (3) reports to the AFRIFORUM as directed

by my supervisors on the Election Day, as follows:

. 14.1  one in the morning after the opening of the voting or polling station  

. 14.2  the second in the afternoon of that day and  

14.3 the third in the evening after the closing of the voting/polling station.

15. It is expected from me to complete a critical incident form should a critical

incident occur at or near the voting/polling station that I may be visiting. I

will be obliged to report such incident IMMEDIATELY to AFRIFORUM,

Coordinators and or Supervisors.  

16. I shall leave the voting/polling station after submitting the results to the

AFRIFORUM(s) and once all the ballot boxes have been transported from

the voting/polling stations.  

17. I shall maintain confidentiality and secrecy with reference to whatever

anomalies I might have observed during the voting or observation process

even after the AFRIFORUM Observer Mission’s report has been publicly

released by the AFRIFORUM representatives.  

18. At all times, I as an election observer shall not display any party symbols,

paraphernalia or party regalia including the carrying, wearing and display

of clothing, badges or similar material denoting support for or opposition to

any political party or candidate in any election.  

19. I shall not display or carry any weapons of any kind before, during and

after the voting period and shall endeavour to conduct myself in a manner

befitting the good name of AFRIFORUM.  

20. At all times, I, as an election observer accredited to serve under

AFRIFORUM, shall behave in a manner that is not likely to bring the name

of AFRIFORUM into disrepute, including sharing or giving information to

observers from other organisations, which could tarnish the reputation or

integrity of AFRIFORUM.

21. I shall endeavour at all times to avoid any abuse of funds or any other

resources that may be provided to me by AFRIFORUM for the purpose of

observing elections in South Africa or elsewhere in the world.  

22. Any violation of any provision of this agreement shall be a dismissible

offence which might be applied with immediate effect.  

23. I undertake not to speak to the media at any time before, during and after

any election I observe and to instead refer any media queries to the

AFRIFORUM representatives.